docs(Meta): How to use Storybook (#3135)
Codecademy/gamut: packages/styleguide/src/lib/Meta/Usage Guide.mdx

import { Meta } from '@storybook/blocks';

import { AboutHeader, Callout, ImageWrapper, LinkTo } from '~styleguide/blocks';

export const parameters = {
  id: 'Usage Guide',
  title: 'Usage Guide',
  subtitle:
    'Tips and tricks to using the Gamut Storybook as a user and developer.',
  status: 'static',
};

<Meta title="Meta/Usage Guide" />

<AboutHeader {...parameters} />

## As a user

### Search

> The search bar is located at the top right of the page, right below the Gamut icon. It allows you to quickly find stories, components, and documentation. You can search by component name, story name, or relevant keywords.

Reviewer: top left? mine is top left

Reviewer: hahaha

There are several reasons for this:

- Linting isn't as supported in the `.mdx` file, so you may not catch errors in your code, e.g. props might not be typed correctly
- It can make the `.mdx` file harder to read and maintain
- Storybook can find it difficult to parse, e.g. rogue whitespaces can cause the whole page to not render

### Adding new stories

Follow the <LinkTo id="Meta/Stories">Stories</LinkTo> page to add new stories to the styleguide. This will ensure that your stories are properly formatted and follow the conventions used in the styleguide.

### Exposing component code

When writing a story in the `.stories.tsx` file, you can export the component as a `Story` or a `React` component:

```tsx
export const StoryExample: Story = {
  args: { ... },
}

// OR

export const StoryExample: Story = {
  args: { ... },
  render: (args) => <ComponentName {...args} />,
}

// OR

export const ComponentExample: React.FC = (args) => (
  <ComponentName {...args} />
);
```

These exported components can then be used in the `.mdx` file to render the component in a canvas.

> Each different export type display code differently in the "Show code" section of the canvas, so you can choose the one that best fits your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each export type displays code differently in the "Show code" section of the canvas, so you can choose the one that best fits your needs.
```

<ImageWrapper
  src="./meta/search.png"
  alt="The search bar at the top of the page."
  height="auto"
/>

#### Toolbar

On each page is a toolbar located on the top:

<ImageWrapper
  src="./meta/toolbar.png"
  alt="The Storybook toolbar, detailed below."
  height="auto"
/>

1. Grid (the 2x2 collection of squares) - applies a grid to the preview
2. Color mode selector (the circle icon) - toggles between light and dark mode for rendered code examples
3. Outline (dotted square) - applies outlines to elements in the rendered code examples

#### Showing code

On the bottom right of each canvas (a rendered code example) is a button to show its code:

<ImageWrapper
  src="./meta/show_code.png"
  alt="a button on the bottom right of the canvas to show the code being rendered."
  height="auto"
/>

When clicked, it will show the code used to render the example:

<ImageWrapper
  src="./meta/shown_code.png"
  alt="the code used to render the example shown below the canvas."
  height="auto"
/>

> If the code shown is obfuscated into a component that doesn't show the entirety of the code, it may be helpful to navigate to the [Gamut repository](https://github.com/Codecademy/gamut) to find the correspond `.stories.tsx` file that contains the code for the example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the code shown is obfuscated into a component that doesn't show the entirety of the code, it may be helpful to navigate to the [Gamut repository](https://github.com/Codecademy/gamut) to find the corresponding `.stories.tsx` file that contains the code for the example.
```

For instance, you might see a canvas that shows it's rendering `<SuperCoolFillButtonExample />`, but you want to know all the props that go into making this instance of the `FillButton`. In this case, you can navigate to the `FillButton.stories.tsx` file in the Gamut repository to see the code that renders this example. If you need further assistance, you can always reach out to the Gamut team via the Gamut slack channel.

#### Playground + Controls

At the bottom of a component story is a canvas that shows a robust example of how the component can be used. Connected to this canvas is a set of controls that allow you to change the props of the component in real-time. This is useful for testing different configurations of the component without needing to write any code.

<ImageWrapper
  src="./meta/playground_controls.png"
  alt="the controls used to interact with the example shown below the canvas."
  height="auto"
/>

#### Individual canvas

> All canvases can be isolated by click on the link with the canvas's name in the side bar. For example, here's the canvases for the `Badge` component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All canvases can be isolated by clicking on the link with the canvas's name in the side bar. For example, here are the canvases for the `Badge` component:
```

#### Adding new stories

Follow the <LinkTo id="Meta/Stories">Stories</LinkTo> page to add new stories to the styleguide. This will ensure that your stories are properly formatted and follow the conventions used in the styleguide.

#### Exposing component code

When writing a story in the `.stories.tsx` file, you can export the component as a `Story` or a `React` component:

```tsx
export const StoryExample: Story = {
  args: { ... },
}

// OR

export const StoryExample: Story = {
  args: { ... },
  render: (args) => <ComponentName {...args} />,
}

// OR

export const ComponentExample: React.FC = (args) => (
  <ComponentName {...args} />
);
```

These exported components can then be used in the `.mdx` file to render the component in a canvas.
Each different export type display code differently in the "Show code" section of the canvas, so you can choose the one that best fits your needs.

<Callout
  text={
    <>
      If you need to create a complex example and still want to show the code,
      you might want to export it as a React component.
    </>
  }
/>

#### When in doubt, ask!

> If you're unsure about how to use a component or how to write a story, you can always reach out to the Gamut team via the Gamut slack channel (#gamut-team). There is a schedule of rotating between Gamut team members who are on-call to help answer or triage questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're unsure about how to use a component or how to write a story, you can always reach out to the Gamut team via the Gamut slack channel (#gamut-team). There is a schedule rotating between Gamut team members who are on-call to help answer or triage questions.
```
